In this video, we will talk about the last detector system, muon system.
The muon system is responsible for the muons identification and their energy estimation.
From the previous video,
we know that the calorimeters stop all particles except muons.
Muons weakly interact with matter and almost no responses in the calorimeters.
Because of this the muon systems stands
at the end of the calorimeter and at the end of the detector.
The muon system consists of several layers of muon chambers.
A chamber is activated when a muon flies through it.
You already know that tracks of
all charged particles are recognized in the tracking system.
A particle track is extrapolated to
the muon system and if the track passes through active muon chambers,
the particle is considered as muon.
That is the muon identification.
Consider how the muon chambers work.
A muon chamber is some kind of tube,
and this tube is filled with gas and has a wire inside it.
Also, voltage is applied between the wire and the chamber walls.
When the muon pass through the chamber,
it ionizes atoms of the gas.
During the ionization process there are ions and electrons are generated in the chamber.
Due to the electromagnetic field inside the chamber,
the ions go to the cathode and the electrons go to the anode.
This produces electric current and creates
signal in the chamber that detects the muon.
Similar principle is used in tracking systems.
Large tracking systems consists of straw tubes filled with gas.
These tubes detect charged particles based on the gas ionization by these particles.
Consider structure of the muon system.
The muon system consists of several successive layers of the muon chambers and metal.
The goal of the chambers is to detect muons and the metal tries to stop muons.
The distance that a muon fly in the system,
allows to estimate energy range of the muon.
Muon system is the largest and the heaviest part of detectors in high energy physics.
It contains a lot of metal to provide required precision of muons energy estimation.
Despite this, the most energy particles
pass through the muon system and fly away from the detector.
Further in this video we will see several examples of muon systems.
In the LHCb detector model,
the muon system responses are represented as green bricks.
Each of these bricks represents a muon chamber in the system.
To identify that a particle is a muon,
track of this particle is extrapolated into the muon system.
If there are active chambers correspond to the track,
the particle associated with this track is considered as a muon.
There are only two muons on the slide and their tracks are showing by the green lines.
Also, notice that a chamber size is quite large
and there are sets of active chambers that do not correspond to muons.
Machine learning approaches can help to recognize active chambers for track and
separates them from noise chambers and as
a result improve quality of the muon intensification.
As it was the last system that we talk on this week
and let's make a brief summary of the systems considered in the previous videos.
This week, we considered several the
most common detector systems in high energy physics.
These systems are tracking system,
ring-imaging Cherenkov detector, electromagnetic and hadron calorimeters and muon system.
All the systems, recognize particles,
measure their energy and momentum and identify it types.
There are several types of particles flying in the detectors.
All charged particles have responses in the tracking system,
that reconstructs their tracks and measures their momentum values.
Ring-imaging Cherenkov detector identifies a particle type based on its track and momentum.
Electrons and photons are stopped by
the electromagnetic calorimeter that also measures their energies.
Other particles fly further to the hadron calorimeter.
Hadron calorimeter stops protons, neutrons,
and other particles containing quarks and measures their energy.
There are only muon chambers after
the hadron calorimeter due to muons pass all detector systems.
Different particle types have different responses in the detector systems,
and these responses allow to identify the particle types.
In the next video, we will see how machine learning can be
used for the particle identification based on these responses.
At the end to this video consider several examples of the detector compositions.
The LHCb detector is
a single-arm forward spectrometer which registers particles flying in one direction.
In this figure, particles fly from left to right.
So, the first detector systems are the tracking systems,
and the RICH detectors shown on the left.
After them the electromagnetic and hadron calorimeter are located.
Finally, there is the muon system at the end of the detector.
Particle tracks are shown by different colored lines.
Notice that almost all particles are stopped into calorimeters,
and only a muon shown as green line, flies further.
The second example is the CMS detector.
It has a cylindrical shape and registers particles in all direction.
The figures shows transfer section of the detector.
All the systems allocated successfully out of the center.
Sequence of systems is the same as for the LHCb detector.
Firstly, there is the tracking system in uniform magnetic field.
Due to the magnetic field, tracks of charged particles such as muons,
pions and electrons have circle shape.
Radius of the tracks allows to estimate the particle momentum.
Neutral particles have no hits in the tracking system.
So, their tracks are not recognized.
However, neutral particles are detected by
the calorimeters located after the tracking system.
Muons pass through the calorimeters and are detected by the muon chambers.
Notice that the muon system is the largest part of the detector.
In the next video, we will consider how to use responses
from all of these detector systems for the particle type identification.